---
layout: resume
title: Publications 
excerpt: "on publications"
---

## Peer-reviewed papers

`2020`
**Salas-Eljatib C**. 2020. Height growth–rate at a given height: a
mathematical perspective for forest productivity. **Ecological
Modelling** 431 [(https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ecolmodel.2020.109198)](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ecolmodel.2020.109198).

`2020`
**Salas-Eljatib C**, Weiskittel AR. 2020. On studying the patterns of
individual-based tree mortality in natural forests: a modelling
analysis. **Forest Ecology and Management** 475
[(https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foreco.2020.118369)](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foreco.2020.118369).

`2020`
Vargas-Gaete R, **Salas-Eljatib C**, Penneckamp D, Neira Z, Diez MC,
Vargas-Picón R. 2020. Estructura y regeneración de bosques de
Prumnopitys andina en los Andes del sur de Chile \[Structure and
regeneration of Prumnopitys andina forests in the southern Andes of
Chile\]. **Gayana Botanica** (to appear).

`2020`
Soto DP, Donoso PJ, González-Chang M, Vásquez-Grandón A, **Salas-Eljatib
C**. 2020. Differential early performance of two underplanted hardwood
tree species following restoration treatments in high-graded temperate
rainforests. **Forests** 11(4): 401. 

`2020`
Donoso P, Puettmann K, D’Amato A, Ponce D, **Salas-Eljatib C**, Ojeda P. 2020. Short-term effects of variable-density thinning on regeneration
in hardwood-dominated temperate rainforests. **Forest Ecology and
Management** 464 [(https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foreco.2020.118058)](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foreco.2020.118058).

`2020`
Fuentes-Ramirez A, **Salas-Eljatib C**, González ME, Urrutia-Estrada J,
Arroyo-Vargas P, Santibañez P. 2020. Initial response of understory
vegetation and tree regeneration to a mixed-severity fire in old-growth
Araucaria-Nothofagus forests. **Applied Vegetation Science** 23(2):
210–222.

`2020`
Bannister JR, Travieso G, Galindo N, Acevedo M, Puettmann K,
**Salas-Eljatib C**. 2020. Shrub influences on seedlings performance
when restoring the slow-growing conifer Pilgerodendron uviferum in
southern bog forests. **Restoration Ecology** 28(2): 396–407.

`2019`
Ponce DB, Donoso PJ, **Salas-Eljatib C**. 2019. Índice de bosque
adulto: Una herramienta para evaluar estados de desarrollo de bosques
nativos de tierras bajas del centro-sur de Chile \[Old-growth Index: a
tool to evaluate developmental stages in native forestsin the lowlands
of south-central Chile\]. **Bosque** 40(2): 235–240.

`2019`
Steidinger BS, Crowther TW, Liang J, Van Nuland ME, Werner G, Reich P,
Nabuurs G, de-Miguel S, Zhou M, Picard N, Herault B, Zhao X, Zhang C,
Routh D, Peay KG, Abegg M, ..., **Salas-Eljatib C**, *et al*. 2019.
Climatic controls of decomposition drive the global biogeography of
forest-tree symbioses. **Nature** 569: 404–408.

`2019`
**Salas-Eljatib C**, Corvalán P, Pino N, Donoso PJ, Soto D. 2019.
Modelos de efectos mixtos de altura-diámetro para Drimys winteri en el
sur (41-43 S) de Chile \[Mixed-effects height-diameter
models for Drimys winteri in the south (41-43 S) of Chile\].
**Bosque** 40(1): 71–80.

`2019`
Vargas-Gaete R, Doussoulin, H, Smith-Ramírez C, Bravo S, **Salas-Eljatib
C**, Andrade N, Trávníček B. 2019. Evaluation of rust pathogenicity
(Phragmidium violaceum) as a biological control agent for the invasive
plant Rubus ulmifolius on Robinson Crusoe Island, Chile. **Australasian
Plant Pathology** 48(3): 201–208.

`2019`
Donoso PJ, Schlegel B, **Salas-Eljatib C**, Donoso C. 2019. Development
of 26-year-old mixed forests following different regeneration cutting
treatments in Andean temperate rainforests of south-central Chile.
**Forest Ecology and Management** 432: 686–693.

`2018`
**Salas-Eljatib C**, Weiskittel AR. 2018. Evaluation of modelling
strategies for assessing self-thinning behavior and carrying capacity.
**Ecology and Evolution** 8(22): 10768–10779.

`2018`
**Salas-Eljatib C**, Fuentes-Ramirez A, Gregoire TG, Altamirano A,
Yaitul V. 2018. A study on the effects of unbalanced data when fitting
logistic regression models in ecology. **Ecological Indicators** 85:
502–508.

`2018`
Vargas-Gaete R, **Salas-Eljatib C**, Gärtner SM, Vidal OJ, Bannister JR,
Pauchard A. 2018. Invasive plant species thresholds in the forests of
Robinson Crusoe Island, Chile. **Plant Ecology & Diversity** 11(2):
205–215.

`2018`
Cifuentes R., Van der Zande D, **Salas-Eljatib C**, Farifteh J, Coppin
P. 2018. A simulation study using terrestrial LiDAR point cloud data to
quantify spectral variability of a broad-leaved forest canopy.
**Sensors** 18(10): 3357 `doi:10.3390/s18103357`.

`2018`
Fuentes-Ramirez A, Barrientos M, Almonacid L, Arriagada-Escamilla C,
**Salas-Eljatib C**. 2018. Short-term response of soil microorganisms,
nutrients and plant recovery in fire-affected Araucaria araucana
forests. **Applied Soil Ecology** 131: 99–106.

`2017`
Ponce DB, Donoso PJ, **Salas-Eljatib C**. 2017. Differentiating
structural and compositional attributes across successional stages in
Chilean temperate rainforests. **Forests** 8(9): 329


`2017`
Kralicek K, Huy B, Poudel KP, Temesgen H, **Salas C**. 2017.
Simultaneous estimation of above- and below-ground biomass in tropical
forests of Viet Nam. **Forest Ecology and Management** 390: 147–156.

`2017`
Cifuentes R., Van der Zande D, **Salas C**, Tits L., Farifteh J, Coppin
P. 2017. Modeling 3D Canopy Structure and Transmitted PAR Using
Terrestrial LiDAR. **Canadian Journal of Remote Sensing** 43(2):
124–139.

`2017`
Soto DP, Jacobs DF, **Salas C**, Donoso PJ, Fuentes C, Puettmann KJ.
2017. Light and nitrogen interact to influence regeneration in
old-growth Nothofagus-dominated forests in south-central Chile.
**Forest Ecology and Management** 384: 303–313.

<!-- ### Footer
ponce 17 `doi:10.3390/f8090329`
Last updated: August 2020 -->
